
2D Array basics (5 sub tasks, 15 marks each) 

1. Create a two dimensional array to store mean marks for eight semesters and five 
programs. Then directly enter mean marks as random values between 52.60 and 73.92. 
Just note that the semesters are numbered from 1 to 8, while labels of the programs are 
CS, CY, IT, DS, SE.  

You need to create it using conventional as well as in modern CPP styles, in comments. 
You may use any style of your own choice, in coming sub tasks. 

2. Write a function that displays the data in the array with semester as columns with proper 
rows and columns headings. 

3. Write a function that outputs the maximum of each program. 

4. Write a function that outputs the minimum of each semester. 

5. Write a function that displays the data in the array with programs as columns, with 
average of each row at its right and average of each column at its bottom.





3D Array basics (1 sub tasks, 25 marks each) 

We need to store the data for a complete year for the 9 outlets of a bakery chain, as month wise 
count of visitors. The count is further discriminated against as gender. You are restricted to 
creating a three dimensional array required with sizes of its dimensions as 2, 9, and 12, and 
populate with appropriate counts as random values. You need to create it using conventional as 
well as in modern CPP styles, in comments. You may use any style of your own choice, in coming 
sub tasks. 

Now your main task is to create a function that takes gender and month as parameters along 
with the array name, etc and generate the output as follows: 


Gender: Male or Female 
Month: 1 or 2 or 3 or ……… or 12 
Outlet # Month’s count Progress  
0 
5486 Above average  
1 
2 
.    
.    
12 
7743 Above average   
3253 Below average  
7292 Above average  


Month’s count is only for specific gender and month and Above or Below is decided on month 
wise average of 12 months data, again in the specified gender. 